Backgrounding Processes (bg)
The previous jobs in this module
have been run in the foreground,
which means the terminal is occupied
and no other commands can be executed
until the current one finishes.
Since most of our examples
have been short and sweet,
this hasn’t caused a problem.
We will, however,
be running longer and more
complex commands in later modules,
which we can send to the background,
in order to regain
control of the terminal
and execute additional commands.
The quickest way to background
a process
is to append an ampersand to
the end of the command
to send it to the background
immediately after it starts.
Let’s try a brief example.
We’ll send 400 ICMP echo requests to the
local interface with the ping command,
and write the results to a file.
The execution automatically
runs in the background,
leaving the shell free for
additional operations.
But what would have happened if we had
forgotten to append the ampersand
at the end of the command?
This command will run
in the foreground,
and we are forced to either
cancel the command with control-c,
or wait until the command finishes
to regain control of the terminal.
The other option is to suspend the job
using control-z after it
has already started.
Once a job has been suspended,
we can resume it in the
background using the bg command.
The job is now running in
the background
and we can continue using the
terminal as we wish.
While doing this,
keep in mind that some
processes are time-sensitive
and may give incorrect results if
left suspended for too long.
For instance, in the ping example,
the echo reply may come back
but if theprocess is suspended
when the packet comes in,
the process may miss it, leading
to incorrect output.
Always consider the context of what
the commands you are running are doing
when engaging in job control.